TIP-1075: Deprecate TIP-20 rewards (#5380)
tempoxyz/tempo: tips/tip-1075.md

---
id: TIP-1075
title: Deprecate TIP-20 Rewards
description: Deprecate TIP-20 rewards at T6 while preserving legacy reward claims.
authors: TBD
status: Draft
related: TIP-20, TIP-1065

> protocolVersion: T6

Reviewer: ```suggestion
protocolVersion: T7
```

- Existing rewards storage may remain in state indefinitely.
- SDK, docs, and client cleanup can happen outside this TIP.

If the first assumption is wrong, deprecated opt-in and distribution calls still remain non-reverting no-ops, preserving caller compatibility at the ABI level.

# Specification

At T7 activation, TIP-20 rewards are deprecated.

## Deprecated Functions

The following functions remain present in the TIP-20 ABI:

```solidity
function distributeReward(uint256 amount) external;
function setRewardRecipient(address recipient) external;
function claimRewards() external returns (uint256);
```

After T7 activation:

- `setRewardRecipient(address recipient)` MUST be a no-op.
- `distributeReward(uint256 amount)` MUST be a no-op.
- `claimRewards()` MUST continue to use the existing claim API and accounting for already-accrued rewards.

The deprecated opt-in and distribution calls are non-reverting no-ops, rather than reverts, to preserve ABI-level compatibility for deployed callers that may expect these calls to succeed.

No new reward opt-in, opt-out, delegation, or reward-distribution state transitions occur after T7.

> Existing opted-in status and reward-recipient state MUST be ignored for all post-T7 reward accrual and balance-changing behavior, except temporary checkpointing needed to settle pre-T7 lazy rewards before T8.

Reviewer 2: I think be clearer here. Something like "Checkpointing of reward accumulators on transfers continues, in order to allow those to be checkpointed before T8."

> The protocol MUST NOT treat existing opted-in status as causing any remaining participation in rewards. Existing state may remain readable through existing view methods, but it has no effect on new reward accrual because new rewards cannot be distributed and ordinary balance-changing paths no longer update reward participation.

Reviewer 2: I think can remove this paragraph

This TIP does not reserve any special pending or in-flight reward distributions before activation.

Any rewards accrued and checkpointed before T8 remain claimable. New distributions after T7 are no-ops.

# Rollout Plan

TIP-20 rewards should be disabled through a progressive rollout across T7 and T8. The two-hardfork rollout preserves enough legacy reward accounting after T7 to settle pre-T7 lazy rewards, then removes ordinary balance-changing reward update checks at T8 after affected holders have had a checkpointing window.

At T7 activation:

- `distributeReward(uint256 amount)` and `setRewardRecipient(address recipient)` become non-reverting no-ops.
- Existing reward update logic remains available only as needed to settle pre-T7 lazy rewards.
- No new reward distributions or reward-recipient changes are accepted.

Between T7 and T8, a volunteer SHOULD checkpoint any opted-in holders that may have unclaimed, untracked rewards. A zero-value or dust transfer to each affected holder can force lazy rewards to accrue into settled reward balances. This window would ensure that rewards distributed before the T7 activation block can be collected by those holders.

At T8 activation:

> - Reward tracking is fully deprecated.

Reviewer 2: Can you explain exactly what this means? Basically, it means transfers no longer update the accumulators for those addresses, right?

---
id: TIP-1075
title: Deprecate TIP-20 Rewards
description: Disable TIP-20 rewards while preserving settled reward claims.
authors: Dan Robinson (@danrobinson), @0xrusowsky 

> status: Draft

Reviewer: ```suggestion
satus: Approved
```

Keeping rewards active also preserves complexity in TIP-20 transfer, mint, burn, and fee-refund paths. TIP-1065 proposed optimizing this complexity by packing reward opt-in cache state into balance slots at T6. If rewards are deprecated instead, the protocol should avoid activating that reward-specific balance-bit optimization and should remove reward update checks from ordinary TIP-20 balance-changing paths.

## Assumptions

- No known production contract depends on successful reward opt-in or reward distribution behavior.
- Already-accrued rewards may exist and must remain claimable.
- Existing rewards storage may remain in state indefinitely.
- SDK, docs, and client cleanup can happen outside this TIP.

If the first assumption is wrong, deprecated opt-in and distribution calls still remain non-reverting no-ops, preserving caller compatibility at the ABI level.

## Threat Model

This TIP relies on TIP-20 callers tolerating successful no-op behavior for deprecated reward opt-in and distribution calls. Callers that require new rewards to accrue after T7 are out of scope because new reward accrual is intentionally disabled.

> The protocol must continue to protect already-accrued reward balances. Implementations must not remove, overwrite, or migrate legacy rewards-related storage in a way that prevents holders from claiming rewards accrued before T8.

Reviewer 3: nit: consider moving this to a "Security Considerations" section at the bottom of the spec.

---

# Specification

At T7 activation, TIP-20 rewards are deprecated.

## Deprecated Functions

The following functions remain present in the TIP-20 ABI:

```solidity
function distributeReward(uint256 amount) external;
function setRewardRecipient(address recipient) external;
function claimRewards() external returns (uint256);
```

After T7 activation:

> - `setRewardRecipient(address recipient)` MUST be a no-op.

Reviewer 4: Why did we make these no-ops instead of reverts with clear error messages?

Reviewer 3: I believe the idea was that no-ops are safer in the offchance that someone relies on this logic in a deployed contract. This is most likely not the case however using a no-op rather than a revert gets the same benefit of deprecation without the risk.

- `distributeReward(uint256 amount)` MUST be a no-op.
- `claimRewards()` MUST continue to use the existing claim API and accounting for already-accrued rewards.

No new reward opt-in, opt-out, delegation, or reward-distribution state transitions occur after T7.

Existing opted-in status and reward-recipient state MUST be ignored for all post-T7 reward accrual and balance-changing behavior, except temporary checkpointing needed to settle pre-T7 lazy rewards before T8.

The protocol MUST NOT treat existing opted-in status as causing any remaining participation in rewards. Existing state may remain readable through existing view methods, but it has no effect on new reward accrual because new rewards cannot be distributed and ordinary balance-changing paths no longer update reward participation.

Already-accrued rewards remain claimable indefinitely.

`claimRewards()` MUST preserve the current external API and claim accounting. A successful claim transfers the caller's accrued reward balance according to the existing TIP-20 claim semantics.

This TIP does not introduce a sunset period for claims.

> After T8 activation, TIP-20 transfers, mints, burns, fee-refunds, and other internal balance-changing paths MUST NOT run reward update checks for ordinary balance movement.

Reviewer 4: Can you add justification for why we are doing this over 2 hardforks?

Reviewer 4: ah it's because of lazy rewards?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, but let's remove the T8 specification from this TIP; that'll be a new TIP

Reviewer 2: Never mind; let's do it all in one TIP I guess

> This replaces the reward-accounting optimization proposed in TIP-1065. The reward-specific balance-bit optimization MUST NOT be activated if rewards are deprecated under this TIP.

Reviewer 3: Do we need to mention this?

Reviewer 2: I think so

This TIP does not require any one-time storage cleanup or migration.

> Existing rewards-related storage, including reward recipient, reward balance, global reward-per-token, and opted-in supply state, may remain untouched.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Existing rewards-related storage, including reward recipient, reward balance, global reward-per-token, and opted-in supply state, must remain untouched.
```

This TIP does not reserve any special pending or in-flight reward distributions before activation.

Any rewards accrued and checkpointed before T8, remain claimable. New distributions after T7 are no-ops.

# Rollout Plan

TIP-20 rewards should be disabled through a progressive rollout across T7 and T8. The T7 implementation removes `UserState` because the TIP-1065 optimization will not be enabled in production.

At T7 activation:

- `distributeReward(uint256 amount)` and `setRewardRecipient(address recipient)` become non-reverting no-ops.

> - `UserState` is removed.

Reviewer 5: i believe we've decided to not do `UserState` even in T6?

- Existing reward update logic remains available only as needed to settle pre-T7 lazy rewards.
- No new reward distributions or reward-recipient changes are accepted.

> Between T7 and T8, operators should checkpoint any opted-in holders that may have unclaimed, untracked rewards. A zero-value or dust transfer to each affected holder can force lazy rewards to accrue into settled reward balances. This window covers rewards distributed before the T7 activation block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Between T7 and T8, a volunteer SHOULD checkpoint any opted-in holders that may have unclaimed, untracked rewards. A zero-value or dust transfer to each affected holder can force lazy rewards to accrue into settled reward balances. This window would ensure that rewards distributed before the T7 activation block can be collected by those holders.
```

At T8 activation:

- Reward tracking is fully deprecated.
- `claimRewards()` remains available for settled reward balances.

# Observability

N/A.

> This TIP does not introduce new events. Deprecated opt-in and distribution calls are no-ops, and legacy reward claims continue to use existing claim behavior and observability.

Reviewer 3: I think we can remove this section.

# Invariants

- After T7, `setRewardRecipient` does not change reward-recipient state, opted-in supply, or any balance.
- After T7, `distributeReward` does not change global reward-per-token, opted-in supply, reward balances, token balances, or total supply.
- After T8, ordinary TIP-20 balance-changing paths do not perform reward update logic.
- Existing accrued reward balances remain claimable through `claimRewards()`.
- Claiming rewards preserves the existing `claimRewards()` API and accounting.
- Rewards-related storage is not migrated or cleaned up as part of activation.

> - The reward-specific balance-bit optimization from TIP-1065 is not activated.

Reviewer 3: Consider removing these from the invariants section and reframing them as test cases if you want to include these in the spec. Otherwise I think its fine to remove and simply test these in the implementation PR.
